Hello everyone and welcome to part two.
Jake queery events and this lecturer are going to be using the same H-2 him I'll file from the previous
lecture.
We're also going to be connecting it to a jazz file where we'll be using a query to work with events.
Let's get started by hopping over to the editor in the browser.
OK so we have the Tim L file from the previous lecture open here on the editor as well as linked to
in the browser.
Now we're going to be linking this to our own Javascript.
So if we go all the way down here I've added a script tag with the source my script but Jesus just changed
that to whatever dodgiest you have in the same directory as this HVM I'll file.
Here's the empty that Jesus.
And let's show you some basic event handling with Jake Query.
First let's talk about clicks.
Imagine you want to have the heading one here change when you click on it.
Well you can do is say something like H-1 and then you have the event call.
So that can be something like click and I going show you a link later on actually have it here open
in my browser with all the different type of event methods you can call using a query.
There are a ton of them available to you.
We're going to be going over the most basic ones and the most useful ones.
So that click is definitely one of those.
And inside of this is where you pass in your function.
They want to have executed when something it's clicked specifically having one element here.
So we're going to let's just say we logged something first so there was a click we will save that and
let's refresh this page and open up our console so we can actually see the log or me expand this a little
bit.
Here's a con. And I'm going to click on H-1 and I see there was a click.
Perfect.
So it's all working out.
Now let's expand on this idea.
Actually grabbing multiple elements.
So there's only one heading one but what if I pass an ally.
Well this is actually going to basically work automatically thanks to a query where if I say cancel
that log any ally was clicked.
Saved this.
I refresh this page and click on any line item.
You can see here that keeps getting repeated.
Perfect.
Now if you actually want to call methods or properties off whatever specific variable you're interacting
with here you have to use the this keyword.
Now let me show you an example of what that would look like.
Imagine that I want to change the heading every time I click on it.
Well what you can end up doing is you call dollar sign and imprint sees you pass in the this keyword
and inside of an event call like this that this keyword is referring to whatever object you are currently
performing that event on.
So we have this and then the offer that you can call it just like the variables we saw in the previous
lectures.
If I want to change the text I just grab text and then say I was changed so I'll save that.
And let's close this for now and refresh the page.
I'm going to click on heading one here and we can see I was changed so again with Jake Query.
You kind of have this funky keyboard with this but also in combination with the dollar sign.
So if we have any event call instead of the function we want to actually affect what's going on here
we have the dollar sign this and then dot in any of the previous methods we saw from the previous lecture.
Okay.
So that's the basics of clicks and there's also things like double clicks hover over mouseover.
There's a lot of stuff like that.
And if you want the complete reference they're all here and category events.
For instance let's say we're looking for DoubleClick.
Well it can expand this Z-Man.
Let's say I'm looking for something to do if click or double click while I can start typing click.
I see the event handler for click but I can keep searching and there I seen double click right below
it with DBIL click.
So that's what I would have to call that a click if I only wanted the event to listen for double click.
All right.
Now for events we are not just limited to things like clicks or mouse overs with just our mouse we can
actually perform actions on our keyboard and that's known as a key press.
Let's walk through a few examples of interacting the key press using Jake Query.
I will use the dollar sign notation and grab the input tax.
If we scroll down here we see we have to impot tags the text box right here and then submit.
So I just want to grab the text one so I will say E Q 0 since it's the very first input that shows up
on the page.
And then I'm going to call a method he press on this and I will call a function to occur whenever I
press a key inside of that text box.
And what I'm going to have happen is I will change heading 3 I'm going to toggle it's class turn blue
and let's save that I'll refresh my browser over here and now we'll see what happens as I begin to type
in this box.
You can see that the toggle class is toggling this turn blue on and off so again what's happening here.
Well I'm grabbing all the input tags then indexing to grab the very first one is a text box and then
assigning a key press method to it where every time I press a key inside the text box this function
occurs in this function.
Rab's the heading three tags toggles their class to be turned blue OK.
Now we can actually grab an event object from this that has a ton of information.
Now let me show you how we can do that inside of this function.
I can input the special keyword events and I'm going to log this so I will say cancel dot log this event
and you can see that it's highlighted to indicate that it's keyword.
I'm going to refresh this page.
And as I type you'll notice I get a console log and this is known as an event object and this event
object has a ton of information on it which we're really not going to need to know.
But if you scroll all the way down there's a which property here and if we click on that we see that
which is equal to 97 and that corresponded with the letter a type B that I get a new object.
Open it up.
Click on a.
And we see we have 98 by type the letter C.
Open up the new event objects all the way down.
I see I have ninety nine so there are actual number codes for every key on your keyboard which makes
sense because maybe only one action to occur when I enter or press w or press an up and down arrow key
which means we can actually specify events dot which to grab a particular code.
So let's see that in action I'm going to say
event which
is equal to and I want to use the key code 13 which is the enter key.
I will change heading 3
Zuby toggle class turn blue and let's save this one to refresh the page.
And now we should see that as I type stuff.
Nothing really happens until I press enter which I know you can't see that the change occurs.
So right now I'm just pressing enter on my keyboard and the changes occurring for any other key press.
Nothing will happen.
And that's how you can use the event object to grab information.
And with key presses which will tell you a numeric code that corresponds to that key and you can just
Google online for the numerical codes specific reason your keyboard.
We're going to discuss two more things.
And one is the method and the next one it will be effects and animations.
But let's quickly show you what the method looks like.
The method essentially acts like event at event listener from vanilla Javascript.
So if I grab H-1 and say dot on I passen and events for instance let's passen double click
and then I pass in the function
and we can use a special this keyword to reference H-1 here I'll say this and we will toggle class to
be turned blue.
So it's happening here.
I'm saying on DoubleClick call this function and this references the H-1.
So if I refresh this page every time I double click on this it's going to toggle this on and off and
my highlighting is making it seem a little weird because when your height when you double click something
it also gets highlighted.
Hopefully you can see when I'm trying to convey here and you can practice this on your computer to get
a better idea of it.
All right.
So let's show one of my last example.
This is basically just like an event listener so I can say something like mouse enter.
Save this and this should actually be a lower Casey save that.
And refresh our page and you'll see here as I mouse hovers over it suddenly turns into blue.
And now I can talk with the class just by hovering off anon.
So now I can just have a single call with toggle class instead of the dual calls we saw back when I
was using vanilla javascript's OK.
Finally let's talk about events and animations.
Now you can go to API that J.
Queried dot com categories slash effects to get more information about this.
But basically you can have animations or effects occur.
We'll show you some very common ones.
I'm going to say input da e q and I'm going to grab the second input which we look back at the HDMI.
It's the submit button.
So I want something to happen when I click on submit.
So I will say on click
function
and then I'm going to grab everything in the container class.
Let's put this in quotes here.
So grab everything in that container class.
And say fade out and you can pass in a number here in milliseconds.
So I like to refresh this.
I hit submit.
Let's close this before I do that.
I'll eventually see everything fade out within 30 seconds.
So what is actually going on here.
Well this is just an animation that is available to update query.
And basically it just fade out and you pasan a number of milliseconds that you want the fadeout to take.
There are many many animations and effects available to you just to show you one more you can use slide
up.
I will save this.
Let's refresh the page.
And as I click Submit I can see everything starts to get slide up or basically a white and in order
to get this back I just have to refresh.
OK.
So again there's a link in the notes or you can just go to a guide that just create icon slash category
such effects to get the full list of all the effects available to here.
We won't really be playing around these too much throughout the rest of the course but you may find
when you're dealing with your own web site it may be fun to add in your own animation using Jake Weary.
All right.
So go ahead and check out the notes if you want to review anything we covered here.
But hopefully you now realize that Shakeri makes your life really simple and a whole lot easier especially
in working with the DOM.
Coming up next we're going to have a Kinect for game project.
We're actually going to make a working a fully working front and Web site that has a Kinect for game
on it.
Thanks everyone and I'll see in the next lecture.